# Logbook
### Date: 14th June 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [ORCH-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/22) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 9:25am
  * Decided to refactor the code once more, placing more emphasis on my microservice layout.
  * Task now is to properly understand what this issue is about and how to achieve it before going ahead with the code. 
    * At the moment, I don't have a clue what "orchestration" is

* 10:15am
  * Realized that having `python` and not `python3` in my local dev might cause issues now that I'm containerizing with docker as some runners might need `python3` to be called explicitly.
    * Also added the `C:\Users\LEGION\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python312` to my System PATH
  * Need to change my scripts to now call `python3` instead

* 10:40am
  * Noticed a few things in my refactored code which I need to change
    * `airflow_bootstrap.sh` just checks if `.env` file exists and then exits if true, assuming that it contains the secrets required. However, I already have a `.env` file in my root folder, which contains bucket names so this might fail without ever creating the required secrets for this issue.
      * To handle this, remind it of my utility function `get_params` in `src/fraud_detection/utils/param_store.py` if that helps.
  
* 12:30pm
  * Thinking about microservice layout, I believe my last issue (ML-01, DAT-02/01) didn't apply this when throwing their outputs locally. They all threw their folders to the root e.g. `mlruns/` and `outputs/` (which just receives output from data-gen and all). Needs to be relooked at later.

* 1:50pm
  * Ran into issues when I tried running `make airflow-up` in Git Bash. Turns out, all I needed to do was;
    1. Make sure Docker Desktop was running
    2. Run `$ export DOCKER_HOST="npipe:////./pipe/dockerDesktopLinuxEngine"`

* 5:26pm
  * Code received for `orchestration/airflow/docker-compose.yml` refers to methods and commands from Apache Airflow 2.x. I'll need to root those deprecated commands out and replace with the updated ones.

* 9:10pm
  * Changed ADR-0010 to reflect the changes noticed in https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/docker-compose/index.html
  * 
