# Logbook
### Date: 11th May 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [REP-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/1), [REP-02](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/2), [OPS-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/3)
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date 
### References notes: [quality-gating](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/blob/5acff9ef26761fa77880c4868d128336cbb2579c/docs/references/%5BREP-02%5D_quality-gating.md)

> Note: Late filling of logbook, so I'll run through it without setting a specific time

**Day One**
* Came up with proposal for project and developed a project charter as well as an ML lifecycle plan for the project
* Used GitHub Projects as my project management tool.

**REP-01: Initialise mono-repo (`main`, `dev`), add `PROJECT_CHARTER.md`, tag `baseline-v1.0`.**
* Created a skeleton repo locally and filled with it with placeholder files so that empty directories could be tracked. Structure shown below;
    ```text
    fraud-detection-system/
    ├── README.md
    ├── PROJECT_CHARTER.md   # copy-paste charter v1.0
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── pyproject.toml       # minimal; replaces requirements.txt
    ├── Makefile
    ├── src/                 # Python package lives here
    │   └── fraud_detection/__init__.py
    ├── tests/               # keep empty .gitkeep for now
    ├── infra/terraform/.gitkeep
    ├── config/.gitkeep
    ├── docs/
    │   ├── adr/.gitkeep
    │   └── img/.gitkeep
    └── sprints/Sprint-01.md
    ```
* PyCharm was used as my IDE. While GitHub was used to host my remote repository.
* Went with two branches; `main` and `dev`. I'd only push to `main` after each sprint but `dev` would be the branch that I'll create local branches off based on my task, and push to when done.

**[REP-02]: Pre-commit: `ruff`, `black`, `pytest`, `terraform fmt` **
* Added more `pre-commit-hooks`: `terraform_validate`, `mypy` and `detect-secrets`
* Got to understand what `pre-commit` is and what is used for (refer to `docs/references/[REP-02]_quality_gating.md`)
* Initially used a template for my `pyproject.toml` but now figured out that it can be autogenerate with `poetry`
  * Also learnt that there are two kinds of dependencies. Dependencies required for the user (`dependencies`) and one required for the development (`tool.poetry.group.dev.dependencies]`)
* Ran into an issue with `detect_tests` hook. It couldn't read the baseline file `.secrets.baseline` even though it was created in the root directory.
  * Found out that it was because the `$ detect_secrets scan > .secrets.baseline` created the baseline file in UTF-16 format while it expected to read a UTF-8 format.
  * I tried looking for how to change it in code but couldn't get any to work even though I tried changing the `active code page` (`chchp`) of my terminal to 65001.
  * Had to manually change it within the IDE, PyCharm 2025.1

**OPS-01: GitHub Action — lint + unit-test on every PR.**
* Found out how to implement a custom GitHub Action using relevant actions from marketplace.
* Was initially having issues with 
  * `checkov` not working due to wrong parameter for `framework`, 
  * also `poetry` not installing dependencies because I didn't specify a root folder (solved using `poetry install --no-root`)
  * finally `pytest` failing because I had no test running. Solved by placing a placeholder assertion in the test directory.