# Logbook
### Date: 7th June 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [ML-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/8) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 1:00am
  * Working on feature engineering for my datetime column
  * Designed to expect on `datetime` column i.e. "event_time". If more should be added, then we'll need to update the code

* 10:33am
  * Resumed working on adding a helper function for extracting features from datetime into `train_baseline.py`
  * Added `DateTimeFeaturizer` class to `src/fraud_detection/utils/datetime_featurizer` incase the project grows and I have other `datetime` columns, or I need to improve feature engineering on `datetime` columns.
  * Will commit changes without running the pre-commit hooks just so I don't mess things up when trying to address the other errors that MyPy and Pytest picked up
  * Removed the invalid '✗' markers in ge_validate.py

* 12:00pm
  * Pipeline throwing warning that the Pipeline isn't fit. Ignored it.

* 1:30pm
  * Test `train_baseline.py` and it works well. 
    * However, it lacks a logging or a progress bar within the training as I don't know what's going on
    * Also Test and Train AUC-PR was 0.0029 and this is expected as the synthetic data, for now, has no underlying distribution that connects y and X. Everything is just randomized. This will have to be fixed later to create a better synthetic dataset.
  
* 2:00pm
  * Trying to understand why my expectations don't expect null values for longitude and latitude
  * Made longitude and latitude nullable and bumped up schema (patch). Also update the expectation schema suite. This removes the nullable test for longitude and latitude as they're expected to have null values.
