# Logbook
### Date: 14th June 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [ORCH-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/22) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 9:43am
  * Began implementing fresh code files using the template given by Airflow.
    * I don't know if I mentioned it, but the issue I had yesterday was that every other service was healthy except for `airflow-init`. That didn't come online.
  * Code works but it currently calls my `pyproject.toml` file wrongly
    * I need to update my `project-file-structure` (not contained in this repo) to reflect my `orchestration/`
    * And then fix the error.

* 5:51pm
  * Updated `project-file-structure` using `tree /a /f > output-file.txt` in powershell
  * Installed `poetry-plugin-export` for exporting dependencies into `requirements` using `pip install poetry-plugin-export`.
    * `poetry export --without-hashes --format=requirements.txt --output orchestration/airflow/requirements.txt`
  * New issue found: My project depends on Python 3.11-3.13. I need to bump up the version in my containers

* 11:45pm
  * Ran into an issue where every other container spun up except for airflow-init. That just took a while and the logs showed that it was stuck in an error-restart loop.
  * Turns out, I needed to run database migrations and create the first user account as shown [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/docker-compose/index.html#initialize-the-database)
    * That didn't change anything. It only focused on spinning up that container and the issue no persisted, this time, on my cli.
  * Also found out `requirements.txt` was never built with `docker compose build` and it's also too long.
    * So I shortened it and built it again (also added a make for it)
  * Awesome! Everything now works. All I had to do was add the important packages and the build the image
    * `apache-airflow[celery,redis,postgres]==3.0.2`
    * `connexion[swagger-ui]`
    * `flask`
    