# Logbook
### Date: 20th May 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [IAC-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/4) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 8:00am
  * Began reviewing, once again, the plan for this issue, I was want to start from scratch
  * Had questions concerning the connection between the S3 buckets and my VPC. Turns out that I need to remember that the S3 bucket is not contained within the VPC but later on, connections can be made to pull resources from there.
  * Still have issues understanding role and permissions policy for IAM
  
* 10:00am
  * Done reviewing the plan and explanations for approach to the code. (Note that for all the resources, you can just check the documentation for more explanations)
  * Started editing my old  code.

* 10:57am
  * Done with editing the files.
  * Also installed `infracost` for cost estimation and `make` for running the `makefile`
    * `make tf-init` to initialize terraform and its associated providers
    * `make tf-plan` to plan out and print our resources that will create or change
    * `make tf-apply` to apply those changes'
    * `make nuke` to nuke/destroy those changes
    * I also added the `ENV` argument which is default to `sandbox` but can be changed in development or production
      * `make tf-init ENV=prod` or `make tf-apply ENV=dev`

* 11:12am
  * Check console and confirmed it is working. However, I would need to [change the policy of my IAM user](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CjKhQoYeR4Q) to add more privileges as I'm a bit restricted on my account.
  * Nuked it and it worked. Will change privileges, spin the resources up, take screenshots and then destroy resources
  * **Find a way to solve the irreproducibility of your project due to packages installed using `choco` e.g. `make`, `tfsec`, `infracost`, `terraform`, `tflint`**

* 12:10pm
  * Added `checkov` to `pyproject.toml` and installed tfsec.
  * Also updated my `.pre-commit-config.yaml` file

* 2:00pm
  * Removed `checkov` from `pre-commit-config.yaml` as it is slow to run and didn't even work with the hooks there. 
  * Running it now from the CLI manually. Ran into issues detailed in `docs/references/[IAC-01]_checkov-and-trivy-security-issues.md`
  * Thought of ignoring and suppressing it, but it would be better, learning wise, to solve it as these are potential security issues.
  * Had to add a log bucket and change the encryption algorithm used for my keys. Check doc for reasons to changes made.

* 3:30pm
  * Sorted out errors thrown by Checkov and Trivy by skipping over them using flags added inline (for Trivy) and using their respective ignore files (`.trvyignore` and `.checkov.yaml`)
  * `.checkov.yaml` was giving me issues when I formatted each marker line by line. To solve it, I just put everything in one line.
  * Next up, reformat the error document `[IAC-01]_checkov-and-trivy-security-issues.md` and add another document explaining my decision to skip or modify the error.

* 4:54pm
  * Time to run through check list to make sure all is done before committing and focusing on the extra level-up bits
  * Added `tfsec` ignores to respective lines as I use `tfsec` in my GitActions CI pipeline.
  
* 5:23pm
  * Started working on the backend and successfully configured the s3 bucket for the shared state and the table.
  * Removed the KMS keys from s3 buckets and cloudwatch and reverted back to SSE-S3 encryption which is cheaper.

* 5:53pm
  * Ran into another error when spinning up resources. It has to do with my cloudwatch
  * Simply removed that line which logged VPC flow as it's not needed in this sandbox. All it does is raise cost up.
  * Installed `terraform-docs` from `choco` and added hook to `.pre-commit-config.yaml`
  * Set-up Infracost in `ci.yml` (GitHub actions)

* 6:51pm
  * Completed the Infracost integration and maybe fixed the codecov issue
  * Time to rerun, take screenshots and close issue (hopefully no problems)

* 8:04pm
  * Remove `tflint` and `trivy` from pre-commit hooks as it was causing issues in GitHub CI
  * Checkov didn't realize that I versioned my buckets because they were called separately as different resources. Now I have to glue it all together.
  * I found out that gluing it all together results in using an argument which is deprecated. I would have to update checkov as it's the only security checker that failed me.
  * Kinda fixed it (for now, haven't tested) by installing python in that environment, upgrading pip and installing checkov

* 9:13pm
  * Changed the runner from `ubuntu-latest` to `windows-latest` because `terraform init` was generating a different checksum on their end that didn't appear on mine locally. Hopefully it works
  * Also realized that the Checkov wasn't update so I just installed my dependencies from `poetry` instead.
  * Found out that the issue with `checkov` was that the tag I was referencing was 2 years old even though it was listed as their official release. They have a tag which is just 12hrs old. I'll use that instead.