# Logbook
### Date: 18th June 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [ORCH-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/22) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 9:44pm
  * Began attempting to fix the cause of my commit failing the CI tests
    * realized I commited my `.cfg` file which contains secrets. I had to update my `.gitignore`
    * `test_nuke` wasn't working on CI because it didn't recognize `-o pipefail` in my `nuke.sh` file. Had to make that optional
      * `infra/scripts/nuke.sh: 14: set: Illegal option -o pipefail`
    * Also noticed that my CI wasn't picking up the relative paths that I had defined in my `ci.yml` or `.pre-commit-config.yaml`. 
    * Noticed that the directories that needed to be excluded by `detect-secrets` were in the wrong format. Fixed that and updated the `.secrets.baseline`

* 10:57am
  * Still struggling with `detect-secrets`
  * Fixed the issue of `docker-compose lint` not finding my file by passing `pass_filenames=False`
  * Finally deleted the mangled `.secrets.baseline`, regenerated it, making sure it was `UTF-8` without `BOM`, staged it, commit it and then ran the pre-commit again.

* 12:52pm
  * Decided to remove `detect-secrets` hook since it's functionality was clashing with `pre-commit`'s and I was having a hard time fixing it.
    * Each time it ran, it updated the "line numbers" or something in the `.secrets.baseline` but the changes never showed up in the git workspace in order for me to stage it. And this resulted in an error code 3 which causes pre-commit to fail.
  * Going with `gitleaks` now

* 1:10pm
  * The failure occurred because the script `orchestration/airflow/scripts/bootstrap.sh` lacks the necessary execution permissions, resulting in the error `Permission denied`.
    * Solution is to grant permissions to the script
  * Failed once again at `test_nuke` and with Gitleak
    * Unit test – change the test to call your Bash script with bash (or directly via its shebang), not sh.
      * `chmod +x infra/scripts/nuke.sh`
    * Gitleaks hook – install the gitleaks binary in your CI image (or switch to the repo hook that builds it).