# Logbook
### Date: 25th June 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [ORCH-02](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/23) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 9:30am
  * Began scanning through the ["Core Concepts"](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/index.html) Airflow's documentation just to have get an overview of what DAGs are all about and how Airflow orchestrates tasks

* 10:41am
  * Finished scanning through that section of Airflow's documentation
  * Now scanning through the ["UI Overview"](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/ui.html) section.

* 11:00am
  * Done scanning through the UI overview section of Airflow's documentation.

* 1:31pm
  * Commented out the `test_dag_import` as I needed a Unix runner to run it and my WSL is currently crashing.
  * Containers created for the services are currently too big >6GB. I'll have to look at how to make it more efficient later on.
  * Also need to integrate best practices when working with containers to know if I have to rebuild my images every time (I guess not though)
  * Removed `infra/terraform` directory from Dockerfile as there's no need having my IaaS in my containers. 
  * Also need to improve security for orchestration,

* 2:15pm
  * Exported aws credentials to environment and updated `orchestration/airflow/scripts/bootstrap.sh` to add in AWS secrets when bootstrapping env.

* 3:58pm
  * I definitely need to add `tags` to my Docker images.

* 4:21pm
  * `validate` task in `daily_synthetic` dag failed because it didn't have permissions to write in the `great_expectations` folder.
    * Fixed it by granting it permission in the `Dockerfile` after baking it in.
  * Noticed that DAG works perfectly and uploads data to s3 raw bucket but it keeps on rerunning after every success until I manually turn it off from the Airflow UI

* 7:47pm
  * Pushed commits to CI but failed due to `xmlsec` package not being installed. The ubuntu runner probably got updated and messed with my workflow abit.
    * Solution: install dependency before installing my Poetry dependencies