# Logbook
### Date: 20th June 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [ORCH-02](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/23) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 9:27am
  * Began working on the code for this issue
  * Whilst adding in the code for this issue, I changed the orchestration job of my `ci.yml` to call `docker compose` using my `Makefile`

* 5:04pm
  * Still working on this issue. 
  * Noticed that my ADR-0011 had a design choice which expected the synthetic data generator to be able to generate realistic data. 
    * That had to be removed as this functionality has yet been implemented.
  * It seems that I would have to copy my `scripts/ge_validate.py` into `orchestration/airflow` so that it can be used in the container.
  * Added host credentials to services in `docker-compose.yml`

* 7:01pm
  * Done with main code but trying to see how my credentials can be mounted into the container when working locally and also when testing on the CI.
  * Decided to embed it in `orchestration/airflow/env` and call it into the environments of the containers that need. In the production, this will be replaced with a least privileges IAM role
  * Updating `Dockerfile` to now copy over the `src` folder contain the `fraud-detection` package.

* 8:11pm
  * I'm currently struggling with how to properly mount my src package.
    * The method I'm, which I should honestly ditch, is exporting my `pyproject.toml` to requirements

* 11:11pm
  * Don't like the fact that I'm stuck on this issue, but I'll see it as a learning process. My question currently is _"how to best transfer my project to docker so that what works on my laptop, works in docker?"_
  * As a result, before the day ends, I'll have to look at 2 videos to see how best to handle it;
    * [The intro to Docker I wish I had when I started](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ud7Npgi6x8E) by *typecraft* on YT.
    * ["Python deployment with Docker and Poetry" - Cristian Heredia (PyBay 2023)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXYFS2pOEH8) by *SF Python* on YT
    

21/06/2025
* 7:55am
  * Still fiddling with `pyproject.toml` and `Dockerfile`