# Logbook
### Date: 21st May 2025
### Project: Fraud Detection System
### Issues Resolved: [CST-01](https://github.com/EsosaOrumwese/fraud-detection-system/issues/5) `in-progress`
### Reference commits: Check commits on this date (if any)

* 12:10pm
  * Drafted the plan for attacking `CST-01` issue
> Outcome for this Sprint-01:
> 
> - A monthly **AWS Budget** capped at **£40** for your sandbox account.
> - Three e-mail alerts via **SNS** when spend hits **30%** (£12), **60%** (£24) and **90%** (£36).
> - A fallback **CloudWatch Billing alarm** that fires at **£40** (belt-and-braces).
> - All resources expressed in Terraform, scanned by tfsec/Checkov, applied and destroyed in < 3 min.

* 12:34pm
  * Began following the 'thinking-path' listed in my notion by first looking at AWS docs → AWS Budgets
    * [Managing your costs with AWS Budgets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cost-management/latest/userguide/budgets-managing-costs.html)
    * [Creating an Amazon SNS topic for budget notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cost-management/latest/userguide/budgets-sns-policy.html)
  * Strategy as with the last one, is to understand the thinking process, implement the code and then understand how the result was gotten using the thinking process as a guide

* 1:27pm
  * Began implementation of CST-01
  * Adding the level-up extras but ignored the Slack one for now

* 2:20pm
  * Trying to understand how I can get the AWS managed key for SNS. Is it free or will I be charged for it?
  * Decided to go with the `aws/kms` as it is free, managed by AWS and is encrypted.

* 5:24pm
  * Ran through code to make sure there were no security issues. I suspect that I might have issues with Lambda.
  * Added new workflow file, `daily_cost.yml`

* 7:30pm
  * Trying to solve my UnicodeDecodeError thrown when I run checkov scans